.TH http 1 "2022-03-08" "HTTPie 3.1.0" "HTTPie Manual"
.SH NAME
http
.SH SYNOPSIS
http [METHOD] URL [REQUEST_ITEM ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
HTTPie: modern, user-friendly command-line HTTP client for the API era. <https://httpie.io>
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.PP
.B (1) Positional Arguments

These arguments come after any flags and in the order they are listed here.
Only URL is required.

.IP "METHOD"

The HTTP method to be used for the request (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, ...).

This argument can be omitted in which case HTTPie will use POST if there
is some data to be sent, otherwise GET:

    $ http example.org               # => GET
    $ http example.org hello=world   # => POST

.IP "URL"

The request URL. Scheme defaults to \'http://\' if the URL
does not include one. (You can override this with: --default-scheme=http/https)

You can also use a shorthand for localhost

    $ http :3000                    # => http://localhost:3000
    $ http :/foo                    # => http://localhost/foo

.IP "REQUEST_ITEM"

Optional key-value pairs to be included in the request. The separator used
determines the type:

\':\' HTTP headers:

    Referer:https://httpie.io  Cookie:foo=bar  User-Agent:bacon/1.0

\'==\' URL parameters to be appended to the request URI:

    search==httpie

\'=\' Data fields to be serialized into a JSON object (with --json, -j)
    or form data (with --form, -f):

    name=HTTPie  language=Python  description=\'CLI HTTP client\'

\':=\' Non-string JSON data fields (only with --json, -j):

    awesome:=true  amount:=42  colors:=\'["red", "green", "blue"]\'

\'@\' Form file fields (only with --form or --multipart):

    cv@\~/Documents/CV.pdf
    cv@\'\~/Documents/CV.pdf;type=application/pdf\'

\'=@\' A data field like \'=\', but takes a file path and embeds its content:

    essay=@Documents/essay.txt

\':=@\' A raw JSON field like \':=\', but takes a file path and embeds its content:

    package:=@./package.json

You can use a backslash to escape a colliding separator in the field name:

    field-name-with\\:colon=value

.PP
.B (2) Predefined Content Types
.IP "--json, -j"

(default) Data items from the command line are serialized as a JSON object.
The Content-Type and Accept headers are set to application/json
(if not specified).

.IP "--form, -f"

Data items from the command line are serialized as form fields.

The Content-Type is set to application/x-www-form-urlencoded (if not
specified). The presence of any file fields results in a
multipart/form-data request.

.IP "--multipart"

Similar to --form, but always sends a multipart/form-data
request (i.e., even without files).

.IP "--boundary"

Specify a custom boundary string for multipart/form-data requests.
Only has effect only together with --form.

.IP "--raw"

This option allows you to pass raw request data without extra processing
(as opposed to the structured request items syntax):

    $ http --raw=\'data\' pie.dev/post

You can achieve the same by piping the data via stdin:

    $ echo data | http pie.dev/post

Or have HTTPie load the raw data from a file:

    $ http pie.dev/post @data.txt

.PP
.B (3) Content Processing Options
.IP "--compress, -x"

Content compressed (encoded) with Deflate algorithm.
The Content-Encoding header is set to deflate.

Compression is skipped if it appears that compression ratio is
negative. Compression can be forced by repeating the argument.

.PP
.B (4) Output Processing
.IP "--pretty"

Controls output processing. The value can be "none" to not prettify
the output (default for redirected output), "all" to apply both colors
and formatting (default for terminal output), "colors", or "format".

.IP "--style, -s"

Output coloring style (default is "auto"). It can be one of:

    auto, pie, pie-dark, pie-light, solarized


For finding out all available styles in your system, try:

$ http --style

The "auto" style follows your terminal\'s ANSI color styles.
For non-auto styles to work properly, please make sure that the
$TERM environment variable is set to "xterm-256color" or similar
(e.g., via `export TERM=xterm-256color\' in your \~/.bashrc).

.IP "--unsorted"

Disables all sorting while formatting output. It is a shortcut for:

    --format-options=headers.sort:false,json.sort_keys:false

.IP "--sorted"

Re-enables all sorting options while formatting output. It is a shortcut for:

    --format-options=headers.sort:true,json.sort_keys:true

.IP "--response-charset"

Override the response encoding for terminal display purposes, e.g.:

    --response-charset=utf8
    --response-charset=big5

.IP "--response-mime"

Override the response mime type for coloring and formatting for the terminal, e.g.:

    --response-mime=application/json
    --response-mime=text/xml

.IP "--format-options"

Controls output formatting. Only relevant when formatting is enabled
through (explicit or implied) --pretty=all or --pretty=format.
The following are the default options:

    headers.sort:true
    json.format:true
    json.indent:4
    json.sort_keys:true
    xml.format:true
    xml.indent:2

You may use this option multiple times, as well as specify multiple
comma-separated options at the same time. For example, this modifies the
settings to disable the sorting of JSON keys, and sets the indent size to 2:

    --format-options json.sort_keys:false,json.indent:2

This is something you will typically put into your config file.

.PP
.B (5) Output Options
.IP "--print, -p"

String specifying what the output should contain:

    \'H\' request headers
    \'B\' request body
    \'h\' response headers
    \'b\' response body
    \'m\' response metadata

The default behaviour is \'hb\' (i.e., the response
headers and body is printed), if standard output is not redirected.
If the output is piped to another program or to a file, then only the
response body is printed by default.

.IP "--headers, -h"

Print only the response headers. Shortcut for --print=h.

.IP "--meta, -m"

Print only the response metadata. Shortcut for --print=m.

.IP "--body, -b"

Print only the response body. Shortcut for --print=b.

.IP "--verbose, -v"

Verbose output. For the level one (with single `-v`/`--verbose`), print
the whole request as well as the response. Also print any intermediary
requests/responses (such as redirects). For the second level and higher,
print these as well as the response metadata.

Level one is a shortcut for: --all --print=BHbh
Level two is a shortcut for: --all --print=BHbhm

.IP "--all"

By default, only the final request/response is shown. Use this flag to show
any intermediary requests/responses as well. Intermediary requests include
followed redirects (with --follow), the first unauthorized request when
Digest auth is used (--auth=digest), etc.

.IP "--history-print, -P"

The same as --print, -p but applies only to intermediary requests/responses
(such as redirects) when their inclusion is enabled with --all. If this
options is not specified, then they are formatted the same way as the final
response.

.IP "--stream, -S"

Always stream the response body by line, i.e., behave like `tail -f\'.

Without --stream and with --pretty (either set or implied),
HTTPie fetches the whole response before it outputs the processed data.

Set this option when you want to continuously display a prettified
long-lived response, such as one from the Twitter streaming API.

It is useful also without --pretty: It ensures that the output is flushed
more often and in smaller chunks.

.IP "--output, -o"

Save output to FILE instead of stdout. If --download is also set, then only
the response body is saved to FILE. Other parts of the HTTP exchange are
printed to stderr.

.IP "--download, -d"

Do not print the response body to stdout. Rather, download it and store it
in a file. The filename is guessed unless specified with --output
[filename]. This action is similar to the default behaviour of wget.

.IP "--continue, -c"

Resume an interrupted download. Note that the --output option needs to be
specified as well.

.IP "--quiet, -q"

Do not print to stdout or stderr, except for errors and warnings when provided once.
Provide twice to suppress warnings as well.
stdout is still redirected if --output is specified.
Flag doesn\'t affect behaviour of download beyond not printing to terminal.

.PP
.B (6) Sessions
.IP "--session"

Create, or reuse and update a session. Within a session, custom headers,
auth credential, as well as any cookies sent by the server persist between
requests.

Session files are stored in:

    [HTTPIE_CONFIG_DIR]/<HOST>/<SESSION_NAME>.json.

See the following page to find out your default HTTPIE_CONFIG_DIR:

    https://httpie.io/docs/cli/config-file-directory

.IP "--session-read-only"

Create or read a session without updating it form the request/response
exchange.

.PP
.B (7) Authentication
.IP "--auth, -a"

For username/password based authentication mechanisms (e.g
basic auth or digest auth) if only the username is provided
(-a username), HTTPie will prompt for the password.

.IP "--auth-type, -A"

The authentication mechanism to be used. Defaults to "basic".

"basic": Basic HTTP auth

"digest": Digest HTTP auth

"bearer": Bearer HTTP Auth

For finding out all available authentication types in your system, try:

$ http --auth-type

.IP "--ignore-netrc"

Ignore credentials from .netrc.

.PP
.B (8) Network
.IP "--offline"

Build the request and print it but don\'t actually send it.

.IP "--proxy"

String mapping protocol to the URL of the proxy
(e.g. http:http://foo.bar:3128). You can specify multiple proxies with
different protocols. The environment variables $ALL_PROXY, $HTTP_PROXY,
and $HTTPS_proxy are supported as well.

.IP "--follow, -F"

Follow 30x Location redirects.

.IP "--max-redirects"

By default, requests have a limit of 30 redirects (works with --follow).

.IP "--max-headers"

The maximum number of response headers to be read before giving up
(default 0, i.e., no limit).

.IP "--timeout"

The connection timeout of the request in seconds.
The default value is 0, i.e., there is no timeout limit.
This is not a time limit on the entire response download;
rather, an error is reported if the server has not issued a response for
timeout seconds (more precisely, if no bytes have been received on
the underlying socket for timeout seconds).

.IP "--check-status"

By default, HTTPie exits with 0 when no network or other fatal errors
occur. This flag instructs HTTPie to also check the HTTP status code and
exit with an error if the status indicates one.

When the server replies with a 4xx (Client Error) or 5xx (Server Error)
status code, HTTPie exits with 4 or 5 respectively. If the response is a
3xx (Redirect) and --follow hasn\'t been set, then the exit status is 3.
Also an error message is written to stderr if stdout is redirected.

.IP "--path-as-is"

Bypass dot segment (/../ or /./) URL squashing.

.IP "--chunked"

Enable streaming via chunked transfer encoding.
The Transfer-Encoding header is set to chunked.

.PP
.B (9) SSL
.IP "--verify"

Set to "no" (or "false") to skip checking the host\'s SSL certificate.
Defaults to "yes" ("true"). You can also pass the path to a CA_BUNDLE file
for private certs. (Or you can set the REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE environment
variable instead.)

.IP "--ssl"

The desired protocol version to use. This will default to
SSL v2.3 which will negotiate the highest protocol that both
the server and your installation of OpenSSL support. Available protocols
may vary depending on OpenSSL installation (only the supported ones
are shown here).

.IP "--ciphers"

A string in the OpenSSL cipher list format. By default, the following
is used:

ECDHE+AESGCM:ECDHE+CHACHA20:DHE+AESGCM:DHE+CHACHA20:ECDH+AESGCM:DH+AESGCM:ECDH+AES:DH+AES:RSA+AESGCM:RSA+AES:!aNULL:!eNULL:!MD5:!DSS

.IP "--cert"

You can specify a local cert to use as client side SSL certificate.
This file may either contain both private key and certificate or you may
specify --cert-key separately.

.IP "--cert-key"

The private key to use with SSL. Only needed if --cert is given and the
certificate file does not contain the private key.

.IP "--cert-key-pass"

The passphrase to be used to with the given private key. Only needed if --cert-key
is given and the key file requires a passphrase.
If not provided, you\'ll be prompted interactively.

.PP
.B (10) Troubleshooting
.IP "--ignore-stdin, -I"

Do not attempt to read stdin.

.IP "--help"

Show this help message and exit.

.IP "--manual"

Show the full manual.

.IP "--version"

Show version and exit.

.IP "--traceback"

Prints the exception traceback should one occur.

.IP "--default-scheme"

The default scheme to use if not specified in the URL.

.IP "--debug"

Prints the exception traceback should one occur, as well as other
information useful for debugging HTTPie itself and for reporting bugs.

.PP